---
layout: post
title: "git stash"
date: 2014-02-23 20:46:06 -0600
comments: true
categories: "Git"
---

During this weekend's hackathon, our team split up duties when we were not pair programming. With over 50 issues, 90 commits and <!-- more -->30 branches, this means we had a s**t-ton of pull requests, code-review and merging, in our effort to apply best practices for version control.

When we had merge conflicts, Git suggested we stash our changes, pull down the most recent changes, then merge our branch and resolve merge issues before pushing.

Great, but I had no idea what git stash was.

Well, in plain language, git warns you that if you pull a branch, you better be ready for it to overwrite everything you've just done unless you take certain steps:

- Discard your changes: You could use <code>$ git clean</code> or <code>$ git reset –hard</code> to do this, this would make all your local changes disappear.

- Ignore your changes: <code>$ git checkout</code> would keep any changes you made locally that do not conflict with the incoming merge, but you will lose any local changes that do have merge conflicts.

- Set your changes aside: <code>$ git stash</code> hides your local changes so you can pull down the most recent master, then 'unstash' your changes and resolve merge issues locally.

So, here is what my normal workflow looked like if I came across a merge conflict:

```bash
$ git stash
$ git pull
$ git stash apply
```

You can stash multiple times, but it can get pretty messy. If you have multiple stashes, type <code>$ git list</code> to get a list of your stashes, the output would look something like this:

```bash
stash@{0}: WIP on master: 049d078 added the index file
stash@{1}: WIP on master: c264051... Revert "added file_size"
stash@{2}: WIP on master: 21d80a5... added number to log
```

If this is the case, simply using <code>$ git stash</code> would only apply the most recent stash, so if you wanted to apply a different commit, you would type <code>$ git stash apply stash@{2}</code>, or whatever number corresponds to the stash you want to apply.

Bye for now :)
